I was disappointed with Ritz Tours. I'm not sure if it is Ritz Tours’ lack of professionalism, but my experience traveling to Italy with Ritz Tours was an unpleasant one. The first thing I stepped off the airport at Rome, the tour guide warned us about gypsies. Not just at Rome, but also at Florence, Venice, Pisa, Sienna, the Vatican. Instead of telling us about the currency exchange, she felt that talking about the gypsies was more important. I feel strongly that the tour guide should go take a diversity training to learn her political correctness before returning to her career as a tour guide (because not all gypsies are pickpockets).

And overall, I was very upset by the itinerary. Everyday we had to wake up early in the morning and rush through breakfast in order to catch the early morning bus; everyday, we spent more time on the bus than we did walking on Italian soil and tasting Italian culture. And throughout our bus ride, we were hearing more about Italian traffic laws than Italian culture. I was totally disgusted. At breakfast once, I saw another Ritz Tours guide reprimanding the bus driver telling him to hurry up with the breakfast, because the driver was taking his time, although it's early in the morning. So there you go: uncoordinated, public embarrassment, should I mention unprofessional.

The tour itself was also very disappointing too, by the fact that we visited the historical sites for only less than 45 minutes, whereas we were held at shopping areas for more than a hour. We guessed that Ritz Tours found jewelries much more valuable than historical artifacts that lasted more than thousands of years.

Not only that, we also missed few parts of the itinerary. At Capri, for instance, we were first told that we're going to see La Grotta Azurra, but later we were informed that the tour was canceled; so instead, we wandered around Capri for nearly the entire day. In terms of food, we only had 2 dinners that were closed to Italian food, and the rest were either fast food or some low-grade Chinese food. If I wanted Chinese food, I wouldn't be going to Italy, would I? It made no sense why we were eating Chinese food in Italy, it's terrifying to think about. Everyday, we had to switch hotels, so carrying luggage was so inconvenient.

I love Italy, but the tour sucked. Again, I'll have to repeat, I am not certain that Ritz tour has a reputation of being unprofessional, but I let my experience do all my talking. If Ritz Tours is not unprofessional, I don't know what is. Our trip was Rachael Ray's "$40 a Day" from hell.

My experience with Ritz Tours, again, was terrible. I felt that we were treated like cattles the moment I stepped out of the airport. Dining and sleeping were dealt as quickly and efficiently as possible, without concerning the travelers' needs. Need I elaborate? We were often fed with fast food so we can "get moving" onto our next destination, which is our hotel, so we can get an early sleep to catch the early bus the next day. No exploring Italian culture, no exploring Italian cuisine, it's just eat, sleep, and move on. Maybe Ritz Tours thinks traveling is another form of job than luxury. AVOID AT ALL COST.


Now although I can write Chinese, to translate this will take me days, but if I have the time, I would do it so this message can convey to the travelers in Asia.



