I recently joined the 17 days Europe highlight tour provided by Ritz tour and I am very disappointed with the tour. This is the worst trip I ever experienced.

Dissatisfaction:

Food:
I wish there is less Chinese food and more local food. The amount of food is just not enough. For most meals, we only have six small dishes for 10 people. We have to lick the plates almost on every meal.

When we have to dine on our own, I wish the tour guide would drop us off somewhere where we have more choices instead of some fast food restaurant off the highway. We basically ate at the same fast food restaurants off the highway throughout the whole trip.

When asked the tour guide for restaurant recommendation, we were directed to restaurants where the tour guide can earn a free meal or some freebies (a few people on the tour witnessed it). The food was expensive ($50 per person) and the quality was very bad. I know we all want to make money, but I hope the tour agency can sometimes value the customers' interest instead of squeezing every penny out of them.

Itinerary:
The trip was dreadful and tiring. We don't have time to enjoy most of the places we have been to. Often time, we were only allow to spend 1 hour at a city after driving 5-6 hours to reach there. The itinerary was the most disappointed.

We got into an argument with other tour people when we asked for more time at the Coliseum in Rome. I can't believe we were only allowing 10 minutes at the Coliseum and we can only take a few pictures from afar. While at some places like the crystal and diamond shops, we are left there for over 1 hour. I guess Ritz tour must think that these shops are better sightseeing places than the Coliseum in Rome. DISAPPOINTED!

- Will I join another tour from Ritz tour - No
- Will I recommend Ritz tour to anyone - No, I don't think anyone would want to join Ritz tour after they hear my experience.

There are "at least" one third of the people (15 ) on this tour that shared the same view and were very disappointed. If we survey everyone, I am sure the dissatisfaction rate is much higher.


