
The Bottom Line: The R-Spec is fast, but, it's no enthusiast car.  The  V6 and V8 Genesis models are better deals with better fuel economy.

THE 2012 HYUNDAI GENESIS R-SPEC

The 2008 Hyundai Genesis marked a major milestone for Hyundai where the company began to focus on cutting edge design, non-compromising technology and newfound focus on “luxury” – a word not normally associated with Hyundai. Before the Genesis, I considered Hyundais nothing more than budget cars I wouldn’t want to be caught dead in.  Now, with each and every new release, Hyundai captures more of my respect and attention. 

The 2012 Genesis R-Spec is more of a “refresh” of the 2008 Genesis than an “all new” car.  The only immediately noticeable improvements are large 19” rims (similar to those on the Lincoln MKS), headlamps with highly stylized and distinctive LED light piping, a bumper with integrated dual exhaust and power-folding mirrors with turn signals.


Unfortunately, the Genesis' sheetmetal doesn’t quite match up with the rest of Hyundai’s fleet which wear the eye-catching “fluidic design” sculpturing.  Until it’s updated, it will continue to look out of place on their lots. 

There also aren’t many body colors optional. You can purchase a regular Genesis in a variety of colors, while the R-Spec is limited to just three: silver, dark silver and black.

Inside, not much has changed. The driver gets heated/cooled seats, but, the front passenger seat only offers heating. The rear couch also gets heated seats. The navigation system is still operated in the same manner as any “i-Drive” German saloon's and there is still no touchscreen available. On the plus side, interior material feel is very good.  The leather and soft touch materials all feel upscale, but, my disappointment fell on the look of the buttons and switches. They look dated and out of place.

The Genesis is a very comfortable car to ride in whether you are the passenger or driver and the backseat offers a good amount of leg space. 5 Adults of average size (4 my size) could be comfortable in this car.    


DRIVING THE 5.0 R-SPEC HYUNDAI GENESIS

The 2012 Genesis R-Spec is equipped with Hyundai’s new 5.0-liter version of the “Tau” V8 they released in the  2008 Genesis 4.6-liter at launch.  The R-Spec offers 426 Horsepower  and 376 pounds of torque. 96 horses more than the V6, but, only 51 more than the 4.6-liter version.


It also offers an in-house 8-speed automatic transmission that helps it achieve 16 mpg city and 25mpg highway.   You might normally associate these numbers with the likes of Lexus or BMW, but, they only serve as a reminder of how far Hyundai has come in a relatively short time.
 
If you want a luxury vehicle, that can get fast on demand, won’t break the bank and good fuel economy is a must, the Genesis definitely delivers. I’ve driven the R-spec twice and I consistently observed upwards of 18 mpg (combined driving).
 
Unfortunately, where the R-spec falls short is in actually justifying its $2000 premium over the 4.6-liter Genesis with the same 8-speed.  You'll take a 1mpg hit on both the city and highway estimates, but, the R-Spec really isn’t much faster.
 
On paper, the 4.6-liter Genesis climbs from 0-60 in roughly 5.3 seconds and returns to 0 in about 165 feet.   On paper, the R-Spec climbs from 0-60 in about 5.1 seconds and returns to 0 in about 160 feet. 
 
In reality, however, what I observed doesn’t quite satisfy my idea of “performance”.  I started my test accelerations by placing the car on a straight strip and accelerating flat out. I also merged into highway traffic as quickly as I could reasonably go. The car does offer butt-in-your-seat thrust between 0 -60, but, it’s at the 60mph mark where there is a “lull” of sorts and the engine seems to feel out of breath. The SRT8 sedans have 6.4-liter V8 engines which will easily race to 85 mph before the car shows any sign of tiring.  Granted, there is virtually no place in America you can actually (legally) take advantage of the limits of either of these cars, but, where the extra power would be most desirable is entering highway onramp traffic without having to yield for a large gap before proceeding.

I noticed a small amount of wheel slippage in the standard 245/45/r19 all-season tires. If you don’t mind dropping another $1400, Hyundai will equip the R-Spec with Bridgestone Potenza S-04 Pole-Position summer tires.  This is the only performance option offered in-house. No aggressive exhaust systems, shift paddles or carbon fiber trims are offered.

The 5.0-liter Tau is energetic, but, the real improvements can be felt behind the wheel. The steering weight/ feel have been improved and body motions have been tweaked with updated suspension elements.   While the less powerful models have dead-spots in their on-center steering, the R-Spec has been upgraded to track lighter inputs more accurately. Road isolation was compliant despite the low profile tires and large wheels. Interior noise was remarkably quiet- even at highway speeds.  This Genesis’ road feel is remarkably smoother and thanks to the bump in speed, it feels lighter on its feet than its predecessor.
 
While I felt relaxed driving was superb, I would have felt better about having a touchscreen to make inputs simpler. Though my S550 has an “i-Drive” controller similar to the Genesis, the user interface in the Hyundai is more confusing to navigate.  I’d also like Hyundai to add cooling to the passenger seat and consider an optional massage seat function like that found in their Equus.






