

Midwest Express offers the only non-stop flight from Nashville to Milwaukee.  Since my wife's family lives in Milwaukee, we often fly Midwest for the convenience.  In most cases, the flight attendants and staff are very friendly and offer good service.  A hallmark of the Midwest Airlines service is a warm, chocolate chip cookie and beverage of your choice.  Since many airlines now charge for snacks, this is a welcome change of pace. 

As for the flight itself, the planes are nothing remarkable.  In fact, for the short trip to Milwaukee, we are usually on a small jet or prop plane.  Consequently, the seating is rather cramped and there is no audio/video entertainment.  If you are next to a large person, you will feel especially cramped.  Also, for most large carry on bags, you will need to ask for them to be placed planeside since the overhead bins are quite small. 

Midwest now charges $15 for the first checked bag.   So, like other airlines this can be a pain.  Also, their fees tend to be equal to or higher than other airlines.   So, it is usually a matter of choosing to pay a little more for the convenience of going with them.  Usually it is worth it because of the non-stop service.

The Midwest Miles program is average, I suppose.  But, since Midwest doesn't have many really long-haul flights, it is difficult to rack up miles unless you fly all the time on their airline.  My wife got their credit card and we were able to get enough miles for a flight.  So, that is one way around it.  One other point is that you can use Northwest Worldperks miles to get a Midwest ticket.  This is a good deal since Northwest has more routes and hence more opportunities to earn miles.

To get the best deal, I recommend going to midwestairlines.com and booking on that site.  Also, if you join the frequent flier program, they will send you a 5% discount code.  This should help with the costs.

Recommended: Yes

Read all comments (2)|Write your own comment
Read all 148 Reviews | Write a Review

Share with your friends   
Tweet This!
Share This!



