
The Bottom Line: Avoid if there is any possible way you may want to modify your booking.

Everything I read about Midwest on their website was all about their customer service and how great they are.

Lies.

I flew to Michigan for my wedding after getting laid off and decided that I would spend more time in Michigan rather than flying back to Boston for a job that didn't exist. As a result my schedule dictated that I would skip my return flight to Boston on NWA, then skip my flight back to MI on Midwest Airlines.

I called to make sure this was ok. Of course it wasn't! Why, I had purchased a nonrefundable, unchangeable fare, so they couldn't help me.

I further asked how my skipping the outbound flight in any way whatsoever adversely impacted Midwest airlines. I told them I was not asking for one cent back of the $400 I already paid. I just wanted to leave two seats empty on two flight segments for Midwest to sell at their leisure. But this would cost me $100 to convert my flight from a round trip to a one way! (Edit: I called back to give in and pay the $100 to convert to a oneway flight. I was then told it would actually cost me $170. $170 extra for the privilege of flying only half of a flight I already had booked. Amazing!)

Now, call me crazy but I thought this nonsense was weird even back before computers took control of all bookings, but in the Internet era this is plainly and simply putting the customer over a barrel because they agreed to a change-free flight.

The woman could offer me no explanation for why Midwest would be adversely affected by my skipping a flight I already paid for. She could only repeat over and over that I agreed to a flight where I flew FOUR segments, not TWO, therefore, I would be violating what I agreed to.

Insane. Insane. Insane. If this was a big airline like Northwest or United, I would be lying if I said the stereotypical "I will never fly with them again", because money talks. But since they are small and supposedly a bastion of customer service that failed so miserably, I am being honest that I will never fly with them again....and who knows if I'll even fly with them the first time at this rate.
