 I took my family of five on this tour and we had the time of our lives. We are seasoned travellers as I have been to 50 countries and my family members have been to 20 so we know what to expect on a trip.  This was my third trip to China.

This was a great value (approx $1600 p.p. with all fees except tip and visa).  Most meals and all travel included.  Three "free days" on the trip means more cost as you will need to buy optional tours ($50-$80 per person per day) or make your own arrangements (we arranged for a private tour guide and van for about $100 per day total at the recommendation of a friend).

Our primary Tour Guide named Gary stayed with us for the entire trip and he was really great, perhaps the best in all our travels.  The other Tour Guides on the trip were good but not remarkable.  The tip seems to be the primary pay for these people so do not short them.  I actually added more for Gary.  They will ask for half the tip about halfway through.  It seems they pay the bus driver, bell boys and local city guide from this money, they need this for cash flow so they can pay these people.  Needless to say the tip is important although they did not stress it to us... but I think everyone complied so no need to stress it.  Some other reviewers are offended by the idea that the tips are expected but I don't think it is a tip at all in the way we think about it, I think it is the primary pay for the guides and bus driver.

The stops for shopping were not bad and they probably subsidize the cost.  They also were informative in how the products are made and how to spot quality.  All the stores that you are taken to are the local specialty; ie, silk, jade, pearls etc.  We actually bought a lot on these stops.  People will tell you you can get a better deal outside these shops and that is true with some of them (I thought the pearls were high).  I found that the government stores offered very good quality for a reasonable price (given the quality) and you can still sometimes negotiate even though they tell you they cannot give you a discount at a government store.  So yes you can get a better deal than this but you better know what you are buying as the street vendors will sell you junk if you do not know what you are doing; e.g., jade that is laser infused with color that will fade, fake silk, cheap vases vs real art (ex: cheap one is made in 3 steps vs 8 steps), printed or partially printed art vs real hand painted art, sun dried clay vs kiln dried pottery etc.  Some of these fakes look very good at first.

So what if the guide makes a little money on a commission from the store as other reviewers think, don't buy if you don't want it... someone will buy at these stores.  Maybe the guides do make money there but I do not know.  Actually I suspect that the government wants a return from passing on a cheap hotel room at the New Otani which is half owned by the government.  Who knows but it is overall an excellent deal and on my tour there was plenty of time to get items from the local street sellers and you can shop all you want on the three "free days" on the trip.  If you don't like tours where the tips are expected and guides make money on commissions then you should go and pay $4,000 per person on another tour.

Be careful of people who come up to you on the street or in the lobby of the hotel. One man tried propose marriage to my 16 year old daughter in the hotel lobby in Shanghai.  Our guide Gary protected us in this bizarre situation.  Security had to take the man away.  On a previous trip, two of us went with two young women for a tea tasting near the Forbidden City in which they demanded an outrageous fee at the end.  Do not go with anyone that comes up to you and be careful of those that approach you for anything other than a picture (the locals like to get their pictures taken with foreigners.)

In Shanghai the hotel put my family's two rooms on different floors.  The hotel initially would not move us.  The guide got involved and we were able to switch rooms with another family.

Also, be aware that it is cold in Beijing during December and January (New York City type weather) so bring warm clothing.  Note that many restaurants and stores are not heated.

I found that we had enough time at all the sights.  I did not feel rushed.  I think that the tour quality is dependent on the primary tour guide. Our guide even ran me back to get a few extra pictures at the Terracotta Warriors.  It would have been easy to say no but he did it anyway.

Some people have knocked Ritz Tours in their reviews which caused me concern before I booked but I figured that it was such a good deal that even if a lot of things were substandard that I would still get value.  I can't speak to other people's negative experiences as listed in other reviews but as for us we had a great time and I can highly recommend this trip based on the sights, quality of accommodations (New Otani - Beijing, Hyatt - Xian, Swisshotel - Shanghai), the primary tour guide and the transportation.  The food was good and tasty but the restaurants themselves are basic.  This is a down economy and perhaps that made the guides more attentive.  Also, I believe there were quality surveys (I did not fill one out though) so perhaps that is helping Ritz identify problems.  Overall, we were very happy and I do not know of anyone that was dissatisfied in our tour group of 26 people.

Recommended: Yes


Best Suited For: Families
Tour format: Various
Tour length: Over a Week
Tour type: Group
