
The Bottom Line: So far I am not planning on buying out the lease, but most of the time I do enjoy the car

I'm leasing a black 3 hatchback, 2.5s, with a 6-speed manual transaxle; this model is closely related to the current Ford Focus.  I've put just under 5,000 miles on it as of the date of this review.

For starters, I am a big fan of Mazda's much-touted corporate dedication to driver involvement and enjoyment, and I think that philosophy definitely shows in some aspects of this car.  The boy-racer in me would really like the keys to the amped-to-11 MazdaSpeed version, but my (sigh) grown-up self, whose name is on the checking account,  cannot justify spending extra on gas for the turbo, speeding tickets, higher insurance, etc.  Although this version has nearly 100 fewer horsepower than the Mazdaspeed, under 90% of my daily driving circumstances, I don't feel I'm missing anything.  I'm not just rationalizing, I'm also doing the road-going world a favor by not indulging that boy-racer, AND saving extra pennies for the kiddoes' college funds...please, no applause is necessary.


Vehicle Dynamics
What I love about this car is precise, communicative steering, a very pleasant shifter, and plenty of oomph for daily commuting.  The handling, on back country roads, is darn near perfect for a front-drive car, and I am saying this in comparison to similar Japanese and German hatchbacks: the Subaru Impreza 2.5,  and a VW SportWagen 2.5, both of which I took for 24 hour test drives (I have a friendly dealer).  The Mazda’s front seats have good side bolsters, and the wheel does tilt adjust (though no telescoping).  One cockpit complaint: no good place for my left foot.  The driver's footwell lacks a proper dead-pedal (footrest), especially compared to the similarly priced VW...nothing but a slight hump, covered in carpet, which seems a strange (dumb?) cost to cut for a company that not only still sells manuals, but markets "zoom zoom."  To me it is a sign that Mazda plans to sell a lot more automatics (which require only one foot to drive) than manuals, which seems at odds with the “zoom zoom” mindset. 

 Speaking of zoom, the 2.5-liter engine is not, in my opinion, much of a detectable improvement from the previous generation 2.3L (I test drove one twice in 2008 before I got a better deal on a Subaru).  The bump in horsepower from 2.3 to 2.5 is only from 157 to 167, and while I do not have dyno numbers, or the ability to do side-by-side comparison between old and new, the seat of my pants says this increase is happening somewhere north of 4,000 rpms, which does not make it a really useable gain, in my opinion.  The available torque is strongest when you really drive like--ahem, well, like you mean it.  When you wind it up and stay on the go pedal, this is a car that rewards antic behavior, with sharp reflexes and the ability to hit illegal speeds in 4th gear--with two more after that.  Yet in normal traffic you can use those higher cogs to improve your mpg.

So based on these things, I think the car is fun to drive.  Some will no doubt feel the 2.5s suspension is too hard, but to me it is on the correct side of the sport over comfort equation.  Part of this car's cornering prowess (and steering feedback) is owed to optional low-profile 17-inch alloy wheels and tires.  It came wearing "all-season" Yokohamas in size 205/50R17, which clearly have a tread design and compound unsuited to the actual winter season inNew York.  Yes, having moved into winter here in the northeast, these tires are more likely to invoke the "dynamic stability control" (more on that later) than any grins when the temps drop and precipitation comes in solid forms.  I recently scoured the internets for snow tires, and decided to go with just the fronts based on the fact that they start at about $120 each (even at Wal-Mart!) in this size. 

I do like the way the Yokohamas perform when the thermometer is above 40 and the roads are clear--they even do OK in heavy rain--but the car has scared me several times during ordinary winter conditions, bad enough to balance the expense of the snows vs. my collision deductible.  Since mounting them, my snow confidence in the vehicle has come back to what I consider acceptable levels for a front-wheel-drive car.  Still seeing the DSC activate more often than I'd like, but I am re-learning how to drive in the bad stuff after that previous AWD Subie, and this particular winter hasn't given me as much practice as usual.  Next time the white stuff happens, I'm going to try my normal commute with the DSC deactivated and hopefully update this from somewhere that isn't a hospital.

(Sidebar: I hate the whole idea of electronic nannies like DSC, as I feel they make drivers more reliant on gadgets than skill, and I'm glad that this Mazda does have a button to deactivate it.  This particular version of traction control simply cuts input to the electronic throttle assembly, so that, on one occasion, I was flooring the gas trying to spin the Yokohamas through some slush to find purchase for a left-hand turn, and NOTHING WAS HAPPENING, and I was nearly stranded mid-turn, with traffic coming from both directions.  This could, IMO, definitely CAUSE an accident if you aren't prepared for it.  Snowbelt drivers know that sometimes you have to "power through," especially when starting from a standstill, and the DSC seems determined to prevent you from doing so in the name of "safety."  If I wasn’t leasing the car, I might look for a way to permanently disable the DSC.

Interior
Unfortunately watching the tach spin up means also watching your average fuel economy go down simultaneously on the little black and white LCD “Info” screen that would house the nav system, should you pony up for that.  Seriously, the screens on most phones are bigger than this one, I would never pay what they are asking for nav as an option.  As for fuel economy itself, I find the screen read-out to be actually slightly pessimistic, reading 23.7mpg when I know from my station receipt and tripometer that I got over 250 miles out of the ten and half gallons I put in.  That still isn't great for a 4-banger, but I am willing to live with this power-over-economy metric.  I do not do much highway driving, and we are forced to use "winter-mix" fuel half the year in this region.  I have seen numbers as high as 330 miles for a full tank in the summer (about 13 gallons), and will update if I get any road-trip numbers. 

 I’ve never before had a car with steering wheel controls, but I do like them; the ones on the right side of the wheel allow you to change the what is displayed on that cheap square “Info” LCD.  Instead of Avg Speed and  Avg MPG, you can choose CD or MP3 info, Current Fuel Economy (a joke, which varies wildly from single digits to 99.9 mpg depending on throttle position), and a Reset/Maintenance screen.  To the right there is a thinner rectangular LCD that only displays in red; the top half shows stereo information (radio station, CD track, etc.) while the lower half has areas for showing automatic climate control settings, which this model does not come with.   It does have Bluetooth capability, but I don't own a cell phone or other gadgets which require such stuff, so I cannot really evaluate it.  The factory stereo doesn’t sound bad, and has good bass response, yet with that split display, and the AUX input being located inside the center armrest, it is sort of schizophrenic to use it.

The interior fabrics and plastics seem fairly durable and easy to clean so far.  The back seating area, sometimes occupied by Daddy's Little Monsters, has easily accessed LATCH points for car seats, but the rear windows are high, making poor sightlines for little people who want to see (or get car-sick without visual reference points).  I haven't had any adults back there yet, but I don't think they would like the amount of leg and knee room.  There is a large amount of space for cargo when the seats are down, the only problem being a hatch opening that isn't as big as some might like.  So you can put a lot of stuff in, but single large items (furniture) are probably not happening.

Overall, I do think that the dash layout and interior design of the sister-model Focus is more appealing, but I could not find one with a manual when I was shopping, and that is a deal-breaker for me.  This Mazda has a weird two-tier dash like a bad impersonation of a Honda Civic.  Both the Subaru and Volkswagen have simpler, cleaner interior designs, IMO. 

One last annoyance I discovered recently was that the back hatch will not unlock while the engine is running.  (I had my snow brush back there, and was warming up the car prior to brush-off...) You can open it, then turn the car on, and drive around with the hatch open if you want, but there isn't even any place for key to manually unlock the hatch--it's got a strictly electronic lock.  No access while the car is running, even if you hit the driver's "unlock all" toggle switch.  I will have to check the owner's manual to be sure that this is done intentionally and not some kind of electro-daemon.

Exterior
Obviously not everyone is a fan of the styling of this car, particularly the front end, but to my eye having it in black minimizes this defect to a great degree.  The car has most of the "hot hatch" styling cues that the MazdaSpeed version has, minus the hood scoop.  I think it looks aggressive from several angles, and better than either the aforementioned Subaru or VW.  With lower body moldings, an epic wing on the hatch, and the 17s, this 2.5s looks good in motion or standing still, and delivers about 90% of what the 'Speed version does, at about 85% of the price (considering I've never seen any 'Speeds available that weren't loaded up with option packages, pushing stickers up to 26 or 27K).

