I went with Ritz Tours on a ten day trip November 2005. After reading other reviews, I felt compelled to add mine. Yea, the price is cheap, you can't beat that. The price of the tour was cheaper than buying just an airline ticket. The hotels were reasonable, the food was OK. Nothing to write home about but served the purpose. But the problems were very long days, historic sites short changed so you could spend more time in factory stores, inflexibility and over crowding.

Issue- overcrowding- we were told that the tour would not be more that 16, we had over 40 in our bus. The seating was crowded and moving this many people around was not easy.

Issue- time at sites cut short- when we got home, we were looking at a tourist brochure that we had brought in Beijing. It showed photos of giant wooden animals at the Ming tombs, which we did not see because we were hustled out quickly so we were could be held hostage at a "Friendship Store" for 3 hours. We got to Beijing a day early (before the other group arrived) and did most of our shopping there at small shops. The prices were 70% cheaper than any of the factory stores that we were brought to. Everyday, we spent a good part of the day at some rip off place so we could buy stuff. This leads into the other problem

Issue- long days. Nobody would accuse me of wasting daylight but because we had to spend hours (re: wasted time) in factory stores, the days were very long. Start early (no problem there) but by the time we got to bed, it was almost 10pm or later. It was exhausting. I don't have a problem with visiting these factories, some were interesting, but the hours (easily a 1/3 of the day) spent trying to sell me something was way past a pleasurable experience. You knew that you were in for a long wait when you pulled into the parking lot and it was filled with tourist buses.

Issue- hotels and food- The hotels were not 4 or 5 star by American standards but I did not have much problems with them. This is in a country that rates it toilets. Usually I was so exhausted by the end of the day, I just wanted to get to sleep. The lunch meals was OK, but usually very greasy. I have had better Asian meals here in the States, but I did not go for the food.

Pro side- I got to see many national treasures for a very inexpensive price.

Con Side- I spent too much of my valuable time in very over priced factory stores. We were rushed thru what we came to see. I can buy over priced silk here in the states but I can't see the Great Wall here.

I noticed that there are many complaints about the guides. I can't remember the man that lead our group but I really did not have a problem with his leadership, except that he did push us too much to spend time in stores.


