
The Bottom Line: Arguably the best service of any short-haul US airline in the skies today. Their route network is not extensive, but you may want to go out of your way....

On a recent trip to Minneapolis, I booked through Priceline, fully expecting to be jammed aboard another Northwest Airlines flight. To my complete surprise, the reservation that came back in my e-mail said I would be flying with Midwest Express. I had often wished to fly with them, having heard tales of good service, good food and warm cookies at 30,000 feet in the air. The flights were a pleasant confirmation of most of the accolades that have been heaped upon them. They really do try harder to please than most US carriers.

Originally a private carrier owned by the Kimberly-Clark company, Midwest Express became available to the public in 1984. Their service has been consistently among the bast offered by any carrier in the United States.

Check-In--Reagan National Airport

There was almost no line to speak of, so I was able to walk up, confirm my seat and proceed directly to the gate. The staff at both the ticket counter and at the gate were courteous and helpful, a big change from the glacial expressions worn at many airline counters these days. It seems that most of their staff enjoy their jobs and this shows everywhere. Changing my seat was no problem at all.

Boarding was handled efficiently and I was pleased to discover that the flight was little more than half full.

DCA-Milwaukee

We were aboard an older DC9-30, but the interior of the plane was neat and clean. The leather seats are almost the size of business class seats, though the legroom is not noticeably different. For legroom, you might want to request an exit row, my usual practice when flying anywhere.

Milwaukee-Minneapolis

I was surprised to see that the seating arrangement was the same on even their commuter flights, operated by Astral Aviation, their commuter service. Even better, their food was similar to that offered on the larger aircraft (see below). The aircraft on this leg was a Fairchild Dornier 328 jet which seated about 40 passengers. The flight was about 50 minutes.

Meal Service

Raves have long poured in for their remarkable meal service. I talked with a few passengers about the reality of service today compared with what was offered as recently as a year ago. True, their offerings are no longer as lavish as they once were, and you will no longer be given filet mignon or lobster. Still, even their sandwiches are edible, served warm on some flights and cold on others. On the first flight, I was given a warm chicken and mozzarella sandwich on focaccia with potato chips. This may sound like it's not much to wax poetic about, but it was actually good. How many recent flights have you taken where you actually enjoyed the food?

On the shorter flights, a cold sandwich was offered. On two of the segments, I had a cold roast beef sandwich on focaccia. Again, a refreshing surprise for airline food.

On all of the flights, they brought around warm chocolate chip cookies. The smell of freshly baked cookies fills the cabin on every flight, adding a touch of warmth to their service.

Drinks

On every flight you will be offered their "champagne", a doubtful concoction called Wycliff, but bear in mind that it is free. I usually stuck to this rather than pay $3.00 for beer or $4.00 for a cocktail. Call me cheap, but when the champagne is free, it's worth putting up with something you might not buy for yourself. The flight attendants were unstinting in refilling the glass as well. I arrived in Minneapolis in a pleasant fog.

Service

Nearly everyone I came across, from the flight attendants to the ground personnel were uniformly friendly and outgoing. No scowls or barking from any of them. Try to find that on Delta or Northwest these days!

Baggage

I did not check any luggage on my outbound trip, but did check a bag on the return flight to Washington. It tumbled out on the conveyor belt right on time. No problems here.

Cost

I paid $233.00 round trip for a last-minute trip from Washington, D.C. to Minneapolis. This would normally have been closer to $800.00 for a trip without advance notice. On average, their fares are comparable to those offered by the major carriers, if slightly more expensive than the most deeply discounted fares. If you check their website, you may find special fares offered from time to time.

The Best Care Club

On the return trip, I had a three hour layover in Milwaukee. I chose to buy a one day membership in their airport club, the Best Care Club. It was well worth the expenditure--about $35.00. The club is comfortably fitted out with large leather chairs, a fireplace, a boardroom and a computer room with carrels. There is a bar as well, but alcoholic drinks are not included in the membership fee. I believe it costs something like $250.00 to join for the year. There is only one location thus far, in Milwaukee.

Overall

A refreshing change from the regimentation of the bigger airlines. Good service, decent food and bigger seats. Could you really ask for more these days?

Note

Midwest Express has recently changed its name to Midwest Airlines. I recently flew Midwest to Omaha from Baltimore and back. A few things had changed, most importantly their meal service. While their food is still far better than that found on most US airlines, one now has to pay for it. A simple lunch of pasta costs $10.00 and breakfast is about $7.00. The food is considerably better than the foul bagged lunches one has to pay for the privilege (?) of receiving on other carriers. Their cookies are no longer offered on all flights, but one will still find them on most of the longer routes.

