
For many years, I've remained a loyal, card-carrying member of Skymiles, Delta Airline's frequent flyer program. And other than a round-tripper on AirTran, I've flown ONLY Delta to the tune of some fifty flights over the past five years, often going out of my way to earn precious Skymiles. Well, after this past weekend, Delta has lost its luster and so, too, have the miles.
The reason for this change in attitude is my impromptu introduction to an alternate airline as a result of Delta's failure to perform in Milwaukee. Soon to be stranded because of an equipment problem, the Delta gate agent was good enough to find a non-stop flight to Boston on Midwest Express which would actually get myself and my traveling companion home sooner than the original Delta flight through Cincy.
Armed with fresh boarding passes, we approached the Midwest Express terminal with trepidation. There was none of the familiar Blue and Red triangle on the tail of the smallish aircraft attached to each of the jetways. Midwest, it turns out, utilizes predominately Boeing 717s, which I mistakenly thought were retired from service.
Once aboard, I was pleasant surprised by the aircraft interior which was clean, spacious, and featured comfortable, roomy leather seating. The attendants were polite and genuine. And here's something you won't see on Delta. They worked the entire two-hour flight, from start to finish. First it was a hot meal offering for a nominal $6. to $11. fee. I had eaten at the airport and passed on the food but I must say that the pot roast looked pretty good. Quickly following the meals came drink pass number one, along with the typical light snack. Shortly after, the flight attendants passed out piping-warm chocolate-chip cookies, two per passenger. This was a far cry from Delta's dry cheese crackers or peanuts. As I consumed the cookies with abandon, I realized that my drink was empty, a bad situation after eating thirst-enducing cookies. No worries, however, as the attendants were immediately back with another round.
I admit that a pair of warm cookies does not an airline make. But the warmth of the employees and a hassle-free flight from Milwaukee to Boston had me thinking that there's no need to be a one-airline traveler, miles or no miles. True, Midwest has limited routes and schedules but if I need to go somewhere this impressive regional flies to, I will definitely consider booking with them.
