
We stayed at the Courtyard Marriott off of Rosedale Highway in Bakersfield last week.

My first choice had been the Marriott at the Convention Center, but this location was full, so we opted for the second choice at this particular Marriott. This is located right off of the 99 freeway in the hart of downtown Bakersfield, California.

The lobby was really nice, spacious and with an "business center" located at one side of the lobby. I used the business center which offered free internet and free printing on either a black and white printer or color printer. This came in very handy for me, since I needed to print some information in a hurry.

We met with one of our aunts here and sat off in one area which was quiet so we could talk. In another section of the lobby was the breakfast area. I was a little disappointed because there was no complimentary breakfast at all....just coffee. They did however, offer a breakfast bar for $9.95.

Our room was located on the second floor and we opted for a suite this trip because there were four of us traveling together. We were told ahead of time that our suite could accommodate five people and they offered a roll-away bed too, should we want one.

When we got to our suite, after an easy and friendly check-in, I was pleased to see that our room was quite spacious. We had a room with two beds in it (located off to the right inside the entrance). The two queen-sized beds had a decorative blue coverlet on each. A long continuous headboard connected the two beds.  The "suite" portion of the room was straight ahead inside the door. We did request a roll-away for one son. I thought the hide-a-bed was pretty small. When folded up, it was a bright orange loveseat. I seriously doubt if two adults could have slept on it comfortably since it was just slightly wider than a twin sized bed. Two children could have easily slept on this fold out bed however. There was a small coffee table in front of the loveseat. Framed and glass-covered artwork completed the tasteful decor.

The bedroom and the living room area each had their own flat screen television. The living room portion also had a microwave oven and a small fridge with a nice mirror above. A coffee machine was also located in this area.

The carpeting was quite nice, being very clean; it was mostly a shade of dark blue with small yellow accents. The walls were a warm shade of yellow. 

My main complaint with our accommodations at the Courtyard Marriott Bakersfield was the bath area. The sink was separate from the toilet and tub, which normally would be fine. But the door opens out and anyone exiting the toilet area would hit the person standing at the sink. This happened to me twice, but luckily, the door was opened slowly enough not to crash into me. The light switch to the toilet/shower room was next to the sink, which also was a bit inconvenient. I think the sink / toilet area was just a bad design.

The parking was fine and located close to our room and just a short elevator ride or jog up the stairs to the second floor. (We could hear some footsteps from the floor above, but it was not too much and didn't last very long.)

I did like the curved shower curtain bar, now standard in most hotels. Noticed a little rust forming on the toilet paper holder though, which surprised me since this is a Marriott.

I have my own little quirks too because when I sleep, I like the room to be quite dark. The room had a bright clock radio, which had a large glowing snooze button on the top. I found this annoying and covered it up with a washcloth.

We walked up the driveway of the Courtyard Marriott hotel and enjoyed a pleasant dinner at the neighborhood Black Angus. Several other restaurants were nearby too, and there is a Costco located right across the highway.

Our suite cost $135 the first night and $155 the second night, which was a bit odd, since we were there on a Wednesday and a Thursday night. Is Thursday now considered a weekend night
