
On our Southwest road trip this summer we opted to steer clear of National Park lodging, as we discovered on our Wyoming road trip that such lodges and cabins were less than desirable in most cases. However, with certain National Parks, such as Yellowstone and the North Rim of the Grand Canyon, while they are less than luxurious, the lodging inside the park is really the most logical place to stay. We opted to stay at the Grand Canyon Lodge at the North Rim since this portion of the park is so remote and we didn’t want to miss the best time of the day – sunrise and sunset!

Lodging details

The majority of the Grand Canyon Lodge actually consists of 3 types of cabins, in addition to a small number of motel rooms. All are within easy walking distance of the Rim and the other facilities, such as the dining room, saloon, and gift shop. Just up the road a short distance near the campground is a service station with small grocery store, as well as laundry facilities.

Be forewarned: the elevation here is a 1000 feet higher than the South Rim, at over 8500 feet high. Early and late in the season, high temps will be in the 60 degree range with lows in the 40s. In the mid season (July and early August) the highs can climb into the 80s, with lows in the 60s. We were there right around the first of June and it was cold at night. I did wear shorts during the day, but also wore a light-weight jacket. Don’t hesitate to ask housekeeping to bring you additional blankets. The cabins do have space heaters, but I’m not a big fan of sleeping with such heaters on.

A run down of the cabins (all have a rustic log cabin look):

Western Cabins (the most expensive at $177-$187 a night) Come with two queen sized beds, a full bath and a front porch. Designed to sleep four people.

Pioneer Cabins ($157-$167 a night) Recently remodeled in 2009. Feature two bedrooms separated by ¾ bath with shower (no tub). One bedroom comes with one queen bed, mini-fridge, and coffee pot. The second bedroom has a single bunk bed (twin-size), one double pull-out sleeper futon (full-size), and writing desk. Designed to sleep 6 people.

Frontier Cabins ($121 a night) Designed to sleep three people. They come with one double bed and one single bed. They also have a ¾ bath with a shower only.

We stayed in a Pioneer Cabin for two nights.

Check in was at the main lodge across from the Dining Room. Park at a lot adjacent to the cabins and be prepared to walk a short distance. They are paved paths but they’re not always the shortest or most direct route to the cabin.

My thoughts on our cabin

I liked that the location was central and just a short walk to the rim and dining room, as well as just a short drive to the laundry facilities. It was definitely rustic and basic, but we liked the idea of having separate bedrooms and not having my teenage kids in the same room as us. Each bedroom has its own exit door, although we only used the one our side.

Like most accommodations inside a National Park, it did not have a TV. But there was a small table, so we got out our portable Scrabble game and played that in the evening.

In regards to this cabin sleeping six, I’d say that depends. The room with the bunk bed was awfully cramped and pulling out the portable bed would make it even more cramped. I also found it interesting that it only came stocked with 3 sets of towels. I hunted down housekeeping and got another set, but at the same time I should have got additional blankets. The beds only come with one thin scratchy blanket. I woke up freezing. Yes, it did have a heater, but it was noisy and I couldn’t sleep with it on.

The bed was definitely on the soft side and not super comfortable. But what can you expect in cabins like this? On the positive side the cabins were quiet, especially since we weren’t staying in two attached cabins like I have before in national parks. I did hear some people walking by late at night, but overall the noise level was very low.

We appreciated having a mini-fridge as brought our own drinks and some food for our drive.

The bathroom was small but I was glad it at least had a window to let a little light in. It had one of those shampoo/soap dispensers, so that was convenient. But the shower curtain was too short and water got all over the floor.

Overall, the cabin was 3 stars. Not glamorous, but for a national park accommodation, it was sufficient.

Dining

The first night we decided just to eat at the Deli, which features typical hot and cold cafeteria style food. It was surprisingly small there – much smaller than other similar delis in National Parks I had been to. We decided not to eat there the following morning and instead opted for the Dining Room.

The Dining Room at the North Rim is not to be missed. Featuring high ceilings with exposed timbers, this dining room takes you back in time with grand views looking out from the North Rim. For breakfast we were able to get in without any wait. We took advantage of the buffet. offerings and had a filling breakfast. For dinner that night, I had already made reservations prior to our trip, but we arrived early right after it opened at 4:45, since we noticed the night before it was quite busy by 6. This was a fortuitous as we got a table with a beautiful view right next to the window. The menu is not huge, which I actually appreciate, as it seems to make the ordering process simpler and speedier. Although the choices are basic—pork, chicken, fish, and meatloaf, as well as vegetarian choices – the presentation is exquisite and much better than I expected.

After dinner, we enjoyed the spectacular sunset out on the patio. It was about this time that it really started to cold, too!

Other dining choices at the North Rim include a coffee shop and Roughrider Saloon. Alternatively, you can consider the Grand Canyon Cookout Experience, which is a outdoor cookout experience with a chuck wagon style dinner. While it sounded fun, we opted out on it since my teenagers weren’t interested.

Overall dining choices: 4 – the dining room is spectacular, but the other choices are limited.

Activities

The North Rim has several very easy short hikes, including Bright Angel Point, right near the lodge and just around ½ mile roundtrip. One of the easiest that I recommend is Cape Royal (just about .6 miles round trip) that offers some of the best views of Grand Canyon, as well as the arch known as Angel’s Window. The only issue with this hike is that it is a bit away from the main lodge and visitor’s center, roughly 23 miles on a curvy road. We left after breakfast and my youngest son, often prone to car sickness, unfortunately got nauseous. However, he recovered enough to do the short hike, although we did up canceling our mule ride

Speaking of mule rides, there are several options available. We had signed up to do a one-hour ride that doesn’t go down into the canyon. But an ½ day ride into the canyon is available, as well as a half-day rim ride. Please be advised that minimum age is 10 years old and maximum weight is 200 lbs.

For hikers looking for something a bit more strenuous (like my husband!) the North Kaibab Trail is a good alternative. Total mileage round trip is 9.4 miles but the return is very strenuous. My husband hiked down to Suppai Tunnel and that was about 4 miles round trip, still a very good hike and it took him about 3.5 hours (taking a lot of pictures, too.)

Conclusion

The Pioneer Cabins at the Grand Canyon Lodge at the North Rim were rustic and quite basic. The Dining Room, with its spectacular views, especially at sunset, is definitely the highlight of the Lodge. Despite the average quality of the cabins, I’m still going with 4 stars overall for the Lodge. The location is spectacular and it’s not as crowded and crazy as many of the other national parks I’ve visited.
