
Candlewood Suites® Hotel Houston by the Galleria
Traveling work causes me to stay in hotels for some lengthy stretches at times. 

When I can I prefer to stay in Holiday affiliated hotels because of my Priority Club membership. 

Relocating to Houston for a supposed temporary assignment I found myself securing a room at the Candlewood Suites® Hotel Houston.  
As a Priority Club member and a veteran I received some preferential treatment upon checking in.  And I am not ashamed to admit I got a great rate during my nearly two month stay. 

The Galleria Candlewood Suites located just south of Houston’s Galleria area and offers easy access to several of Houston’s road arteries. 

Additionally many major business and industrial parks are nearby and this location gives easy access to many of them.

However, be wary of Houston’s heinous traffic problems.  If you have to leave the hotel, do so before seven am or after 6 pm, otherwise you will play heck with the local drivers.  Houston’s police departments do a superb job balancing out traffic flows, but they cannot keep control of all the people who drive while texting or putting on their makeup.  

Nearby you will find several restaurants, but I recommend you drive a little farther and hit the more posh places on Westhiemer, San Felipe and Richmond streets. 

The standard suite features a queen size bed, sitting chair, a small work table, a large crt style tv, and a small kitchen (two burners, no oven, full size fridge, and a microwave). 

The room was smaller than I am used to for Candlewood suites, but this is probably due to this being an older hotel.  Out back there is a small covered patio area that has two gas grills for your use.
One really sad note was the lack of central cooling.  The window wall unit was noisy and either ON or OFF. 

Although small I felt at home and had no problems with sharing the room with my wife during her visit. 

Weekly room cleanings were normal, but I had no problem with the staff jumping in on an off day to spruce up my room. 

Free washers and dryers are standard as expected.  However, the units at this Candlewood Suites were in need of replacement as they frequently failed to function or performed inadequately. 

For the business professionals keep in mind that this hotel offers no business center. Top this off with no LAN access, only WiFi, and that has some serious bandwidth issues. 

There is a small workout room that I used often to help maintain some semblance of form.  But I would have preferred a pool and hot tub for a more intense workout and relaxation routine.  

At the front desk the staff was always helpful, courteous, and professional.  I utilized the free movie exchange often when work allowed or I did not want to eat out.  

I would stay there again for any long stay, but anything shorter than a week, I will go elsewhere
