
Recent travels took me back to my ancestral homeland of Virginia, namely Richmond the state capital.  Nine generations ago, my g-grandfather came to Jamestown as an immigrant from England.   Originally I had planned some extra time and research after the SE TESOL conference which was being held there at the Omni. 

When the arrangements were made by the rep, for some reason they could not get me into the Omni and I ended up in the Crowne Plaza Richmond, the fifteen storied modern architectural hotel some six blocks away.  I had only stayed at a Crowne Plaza hotel once before at the Dulles Airport but was there such a short period of time, I barely remember the experience.  But I was scheduled to be there some three days, enough time to enjoy the visit.  Were it not for coming down with bronchitis, it could have been a very enjoyable stay.

Upon arrival two very kind and cheerful attendants greeted me at the front desk.  I was tired from flying and having a bit of trouble with breathing by this point.  The rep for whom I was working had already secured the room with her credit card, so I had only to check in.  Would you like a bottle of wine? the young man asked.  I looked at him rather strangely expecting that he was going to give me perhaps a bottle of water.  But he was serious.  He had for me a gift wrapped bottle of red wine.  I think I'm going to like this place, I thought to myself.

The lobby was old school luxury with mirrored walls, two storied ceiling, stairway leading to the restaurant upstairs on the second floor, ATM, and plenty of overstuffed sofas and chairs in the sitting areas.  To the left of the entrance and before reaching the counter was a mini-restaurant/bar with spacious areas for lounging and a gift shop.  I had lunch here because the restaurant was not opened and I was famished.

I took the elevator up to the thirteenth floor (reserved for members) and noticed the pool/ exercise area next to the first floor doors before going up.  My room was spacious with a large King sized bed with plenty of pillows.  The bathroom and closet were stationed to the right and left of the door.  The closet had ample woodened hangers, laundry bag, and iron and the bathroom was complete with two sets of linens.  There was a rich décor with marble counters and flip top shampoo, conditioner and lotion.  On the bed was a kit containing lavender spray to use on the linens for a wonderful night sleep.  The flat screen television adorned an enormous credenza on the opposite wall of the bed.  Tucked under the television (which swiveled) was a microwave and refrigerator in which I placed the bottle of wine and my two drinks I had bought at the airport.  At the end of the entertainment unit was a desk with a lamp and information about the hotel and an ergonomic chair.  Over in the corner of the room was a cushiony club chair and ottoman.

My Stay

My first adventure into the Crowne Plaza Richmond brought me to The Great Room lounge on the first floor for a bite to eat.  A delightful young lady from Hungary was at my service.  I really enjoyed getting to talk with her.  I ordered the chicken noodle soup and a turkey Ruben sandwich.  Both were excellent.  I also obtained some meds from the gift shop (for which I paid dearly) and went back to my room to check emails and take some medicine.  I was already beginning to come down with what I initially thought might be staph.  So I wanted to nail it fast. 

I was thrilled to learn that internet connection in the room is both wireless and through cable and wow was it fast.  Best of all it was free!!!  After working for a couple of hours to get caught up, I walked down to the Omni and helped the rep set up the exhibit for the conference.  It was a pretty pleasant walk down to the Omni.  But when I left to walk back, I began to realize that clouds were building in the very humid skies. 

It was beginning to get dark and the walk and set up had worked through the earlier food and I was ready to eat.  I took the elevator to the second floor and the almost empty Pavilion Café.  The waitresses were very kind and helpful.  I ordered a pasta meal and carrot cake.  They were delicious, but I was beginning to not feel all that well and got filled very quickly.  I asked the young lady to box up the leftovers to take to my room.  Not long into the meal, I began to see lightening strikes in the distance through the tall buildings of downtown.  I was merely blocks from Virginia Commonwealth and about a block from the River.  When I went back up to my room and stepped from the elevator, I could see the River.  The River looked eerily empty with only small puddles of water being seen.

When I turned the television on, tornado watches had been issued for the area and I got that uncomfortable feeling of once more being followed by bad weather.  (Those who have followed my writings this year know I was in the Alabama tornadoes as well as being in New England with a hurricane named Irene.)  Outside of the lightening, I never knew much that night because I took some bedtime medicine and went fast to sleep. 

I made a cup of coffee (Starbucks) in the single coffee service.  The walk down to the Omni was pleasant as the front going through had removed the vast part of the humidity and coolness was in the air.  But even at that, I still found myself a bit hot when I got to my destination.  That evening I had scheduled a massage that was a bust.  Before he arrived, I put on my shorts and went down to the hot tub and soaked for a while.  The water was not very warm and the tub was a bit old.  The water was clean and the jets felt good, but this area could use a bit of updating.  I guess one day I will learn not to just do an internet search for massage therapists, because he was horrible.  Since I had enjoyed a great lunch and was still pretty full, I skipped dinner and enjoyed resting with a book in the chair and hit the bed early.  Now did I mention this bed was super comfortable?  AHHHH.

Saturday was check out time and I needed to take me and my luggage down to the Omni. After eating a delicious and rather inexpensive breakfast (buffet for $11 including drinks), I finished dressing and headed downstairs for checkout. When I checked out the good folks at the desk arranged for me to be shuttled to the other hotel.  I appreciated it greatly not really wanting to be lugging all these bags down the sidewalk.  I just wished that I had been feeling better during my stay there.  The state capitol was merely a block from the Omni, and I just didn't feel up to walking up the hill.  Hollywood Cemetery was just a couple of blocks from the Crowne Plaza.  It is the final resting place of two US Presidents as well as President Jefferson Davis of the Confederacy.  I would have liked to have walked over, but I just didn't have enough energy to do it.

Final Thoughts
In my life on the road, I have stayed in many hotels including both luxury four star hotels and half star dumps.  But this stay in the Crowne Plaza Richmond was absolutely among one of the most enjoyable stays I've experienced.  The accommodations are rather nice.  The pricing was moderately priced with Thursday night being $129 and Friday being $99.  They do charge for parking, but I didn't have to worry with that.  The television had a reasonable number of stations but not PPV.  The food in the hotel was very good.  The bed was extremely comfortable, and the attendants very courteous. 

My only negatives about the Crowne Plaza Richmond are two.  One, there was a room connecting the adjoining room and one could easily hear the people next door when they were entering their room.  Secondly, the drainage in the bathtub was so bad that one would be standing in ankle deep water very shortly after starting a shower.  I can't stand that.  But otherwise, this is one very fine hotel.

I would not hesitate one bit in staying again at the Crowne Plaza Richmond.  And on the final night of my stay many others were staying there because of the proximity to the cultural festival that was happening along the river that weekend.  I really liked the flavor and hospitality shown here.  It just doesn't get much better than this.  And that bottle of wine, you ask.  Oh it was good to the last drop and consumed right after the massage.
