
This past summer we got stuck in traffic on our way home from our vacation and decided we needed to stay overnight at a hotel rather than make it all the way home, as we had planned.    After three hours stuck in an un-air conditioned car on a near 90 degree day (my husband turned it off because he was afraid he’d run out of gas in the non-moving traffic!), I was just not willing to drive another four hours to get the rest of the way home. The children were arguing…have you ever seen an 11 year old argue with a 5 year old?  It was not pretty!!...., I was tired of sitting in a puddle of my own sweat, and just plain tired to boot!  Yuck!  I told my husband to find a place to stop so I could shower, get something to eat, and go to bed!  He says he saw the Fairfield Inn from the highway and when we stopped, we found that there were indeed vacancies and we got a room!  This was the Fairfield Inn in Malta, NY, north of Albany, NY

First Impressions
I was just so glad that there was a vacancy that I almost didn’t notice what the place looked like.  I knew that the Fairfield Inn chain has a relatively good reputation so that made me happy.

The check in process was very easy.  The employee told us that he did have available rooms and first quoted us a price of $149.  I was willing to take just about anything and being that we were in NY, I didn’t even think that was an unreasonable price to pay.  However, without any prompting from my husband or myself, he said he could offer us the “Manager’s Special” of $99.99.  We were overjoyed!  I love saying $50 and it seemed like a decent place. 

We got our key cards and headed up to our room.  On the way, we did notice the smell of fresh paint and I got a bit worried at first.  This was on the first floor.  Thankfully, there was no smell on the second floor.  After getting settled, I had looked at the little booklet that the hotel leaves in the room to find that they are renovating the hotel at this time.  It says that they are doing one wing at a time so the wing we passed through on the first floor was obviously the part they are working on now.  Other than the faint smell on the first floor upon passing through, the renovations did not effect us in any other way.

Our Room
The room was a reasonable size but not overly large.  Still, there were two double beds and enough room to move around.  There was one nightstand in between the beds as well as a dresser with a television on top, a desk and chair, and an easy chair.  The room was clean and had a pleasant smell when we waked in.  The temperature was comfortable.

The beds were comfortable and there were plenty of pillows.  There were four pillows on each bed, which was more than enough.  The sheets and blanket all appeared clean when I checked them out (as I always do)

The bathroom was small and compact.  There was just enough room to get in and out of the shower and dry off.  The bathroom was clean and there were plenty of towels available.  The toilet and shower were in the bathroom and the sink was outside.  There was a small amount of counter space available but since it was a quick stay, it wasn’t too bad.  The shower had good water pressure and there was plenty of hot water.  It felt so good after my ordeal in the car!

Continental Breakfast
The last thing I expected in a hotel I just stopped at was a free breakfast.  This was a nice treat for us since we wanted something quick and we were in a hurry and wanted to get right on the road.  (My husband had a 1PM meeting at work that day that he had to get home in time for.).  So, it was very convenient and worked out well.

There were plenty of tables available for the small crowd that was in the breakfast room that morning.  We were able to make our own waffles which was nice and fast.  There was cereal, breads, yogurt and hard boiled eggs.  There was milk, juice and coffee available.  When I went to get apple juice from the machine, it came out as water.  The attendant noticed that I threw it right away and told me she’d get more juice right away and she did and even brought me the cup of juice to my table when it was ready!  We enjoyed our breakfast and were able to get on the road bright and early.
 
Amenities
Since this was such a quick stay (we arrived after 8PM and left before 8AM), we did not really have the time nor inclination to enjoy any of the other amenities besides the free breakfast.  The hotel did offer free high speed wireless internet which would have been convenient for me if I had had time to use it.  There was an outdoor pool and an exercise room on the premises.

Recommendations
I got a good night’s sleep at the Fairfield Inn and Suites by Mariott in Malta, NY.  Overall, it was just an average hotel but it was comfortable and clean.  I consider this just about right for my needs and it was in the right place at the right time in this instance.  I would stay in this location again if I were in the area and I would recommend it to friends.
