An essential product to have when moving into college for most students would be a laptop computer. When looking for a computer there are some attributes that should be considered such as color, speed, and sound. The choosing of a laptop all depends on what you are looking for   in a laptop. I bought a Dell Inspiron and there are some ways it could be better but in other ways it's the laptop every student should have.
First when shopping for a laptop consider the design. This one in particular is an ominous, black tint. The sleekness can be measured to a piece of glass or a television screen. When opened up, displayed is a full keyboard and steel like quality surrounding the keys. I like this quality but it would be better if you could choose the color that you wanted. This type of laptop comes in only this format. Being so lightweight makes it ideal for someone that is always on the go. The screen is eighteen inches from corner to corner. One of the bigger screens you can purchase for a laptop without it being too ridiculous.
The Keyboard is something to get more into detail about because this could affect your decision when choosing a computer. This specific style is perfect for someone that wants a keyboard just like a personal computer. Some computers consist of a touch pad that gets in your way when you are typing a paper and can click off your desired area. When considering all of this information the Dell Inspiron is perfect for not letting this occur.
The next topic to consider is the price of your machine. This could single handedly change your decision. Most computers bought for college students are in the $500 to $700 range. If you can provide enough cash to purchase the 700 dollar laptop, this could be yours. While the price may seem a little steep for families already dealing with the paying their child through college the cost is well worth it in my opinion.
Speed is well worth thinking about. The Inspiron that I have has an i5 core processor and runs windows 7 which is the latest version of windows. The i5 core processor is the second best that money can buy if you didn't know and the windows 7 can allow you to download all the applications you want to be able to use on your laptop. I have had this for 3 months and it seems the speed of such things as web access and loading videos has not diminished over that time.
As I was browsing the internet to find the best deal one of the attributes I happened to always catch myself looking up was the battery life. This computer has a five hour battery life and it was the best I could find. If you are someone that is always on the go and can't find an outlet this is the computer for you. Out of all the laptops, the Inspiron had one of the top battery lives. If you are person that has no problem keeping the laptop in one place like a personal computer then this quality is not that important for you. Also it is key to buy a laptop cooler so that it doesn't overheat. The battery life may be good for when the laptop doesn't have anything plugged in but if you're like me and have a wireless mouse, cooler, and external hard drive connected at all times then the battery life is lowered to about three hours.
I for one love talking to past friends that have gone off to college and what better way to do that than with a webcam. This laptop has a built in webcam that has very good quality. To top it all off, Dell gives extra themes such as giving yourself a mustache or making you into superman. These features can stop boredom and cause for a good night. You have to be careful when selecting a good webcam because most freeze without warning. The one that is including in the Inspiron is great for talking to friends and family members.
            If you are a consumer that needs music while studying for a test then a quality that you will be searching for will be the overall sound of the device.  The sound on my laptop is explained on the package as one of the top sound systems on a laptop to date. In my experience that isn't very great quality. I suggest buying speakers to plug into the computer so you can really listen. I have a subwoofer also equipped and couldn't be happier.
A big decision when going off to college for most students is what laptop to purchase. If you think of buying the Dell Inspiron I highly suggest it. When all is said and done the main points that make this laptop one of the top choices in my opinion are the overall look, keyboard accessibility, webcam, and other qualities. If you are looking for a computer that has amazing sound and battery power then I suggest you look somewhere else, possibly a personal computer.


