I'm a PS3 gamer, and I had never considered picking up a 360 until my cousin bragged on this game every time I saw him.  He was so taken with it, it was intrigued. So I bought the cheapest 360 I could find and picked up this game.  It was worth every penny.

The story is nothing short of fantastic. The people at Bioware really put a lot of effort into making this game world not only have depth, but have a draw that makes the player want to come back again and again. The story (set in 2183) is centered around Commander Shepard and starts off on a "routine Alliance mission" to check out an artifact on a human colony on the planet Eden Prime. Along with two squad mates and a Turian spectre named Nilhlus, Shepard explores the colony and finds that alien synthetic life-forms - known as "geth" - have taken over, and a rogue spectre named Saren has a dark scheme in the works. After he kills Nihlus, he flees the planet, leaving Shepard to examine the beacon. After getting too close, Shepard collapses, plagued by a vision of biological creatures being slaughtered by machines. Shepard must unravel the mystery of the vision and stop Saren and the geth, but the more Shepard travels around the galaxy collecting clues, the more he realizes that there is a much larger threat than Saren.

The way the player shapes the character makes this game worthy of multiple playthroughs. You'll play as Commander Shepard, who can be either male or female and have a customized appearance. You can come from one of three different backgrounds - spacer, colonist, or earthborn - and then the major event in Shepard's service under the Alliance - war hero, sole survivor, or ruthless. Before you wrap up the character creation process, you must pick one of six classes. This can make Shepard a full fledged soldier with access to every type of gun, an adept that allows Shepard to use Force-like powers, or a vanguard that is caught somewhere in between. Shepard is fully voiced, and via an innovative dialog wheel, the player can select a snarky response or a comforting answer. With this, the player will either gain Paragon or Renegade points. You will also receive points for the decisions you make as the game progresses. Once either reaches a certain level, it will unlock more dialog options such as a Renegade Shepard intimidating or a Paragon coercing his way out of a big fight or making a companion see reason.

The characters are over-all very likable, which is a must since you will be spending at least fifteen hours with them (though I've personally had playthroughs that are closer to thirty hours). The alien races are all vastly different (some very similar to humans, some looking like the link between dinosaurs and birds, and others that could only be likened to a jelly fish), and Bioware has provided a ton of in-game reading - or listening, if you prefer - on each species' history. Many of them are recruited early on in the game, but on more than one occasion, the player must make decisions that can mean life or death for certain squad mates. There is also the possibility of romance on board the Normandy, allowing a male and female option for the female Shepard, and two female options for the male Shepard. After talking with squad members after every mission, often they will confide in Shepard and send the player on missions to help them look for something lost or to seek revenge. These side quests alone can add hours to a playthough.

The game does have its faults. There is constant texture pop in on armor, landscapes, and often faces. There are lengthy load times on-board elevators. While it is nice to explore the landscapes of many planets, the vehicle ("Mako") that the player does so in is just bad. Poor controls make these segments frustrating rather than fun, and they feel all too frequent.

A perk of the game is that even the minute choices made in the game carry over to the sequel, Mass Effect 2, which will eventually all carry over to Mass Effect 3. This is a nice touch that I personally have never seen done before, so keep those save files!
