
When traveling for pleasure, I'm sort of a cheapskate. This, and the fact that we almost always travel with the family dog, tends to limit our options while out on the road. Reasonably-priced hotels that are also pet-friendly are still a fairly small portion of the market. One chain that comes through for us fairly often is La Quinta, so it wasn't unusual for us to stop in one of their properties on our way through Santa Fe not long ago.

Though the chain has six hotels in nearby Albuquerque, there's only one in Santa Fe - the La Quinta Inn Santa Fe, on Cerrillos Road. This property is an Inn, meaning that it's all exterior entrances; that's as opposed to the La Quintas with interior entrances that they call an "Inn and Suites." The Inns tend to be older, and this one was no exception. The property has about 130 rooms on three floors of a complex of buildings, sort of like a teensy apartment complex. Elevators at the end(s) of the buildings provide access to the upper floors from a parking lot that wraps around all four sides of the building.

We booked a King room using the chain's website, and the keys were waiting in the "Express check-in" rack on our arrival. Our AAA discount was honored; it's the same discount as our AAPR rate. The room turned out to be a typical La Quinta room, with a small desk/table at one end of the room and a big king-size bed that dominated one wall. A new flatscreen television - satellite television with some problems (no sound on The Weather Channel, for instance) and in-room wireless internet provided our entertainment. We also had the typical set of amenities: a hair dryer, an iron and board, a clock-radio, a phone, coffee service and a phone or two. There was a minifridge, too, though not a microwave. Executive King rooms include both items.

The bed was nice and big and of average or better comfort; equipped with five medium-sized pillows, all poly fiber fill and fairly bulky (the Ms says, "Cool," since she's allergic to down). Towel count was only three, medium size and medium softness. Temperature control was provided by a window unit, which we left on "FAN" all night so the dog wouldn't hear people wandering around in the parking lot. That worked.

The room had recently undergone an upgrade, which yielded a new bed, the flatscreen TV, and a fresh coat of paint - maybe new carpeting and drapes; I didn't look. The bathroom had somehow escaped notice, however, and was still claustrophobically small (with a seven-foot ceiling) and in only reasonable repair. The WC barely functioned; apparently having been repaired by the installation of an incorrect fill valve. The rest of the room was in good working order.

The La Quinta Inn Santa Fe is pet-friendly: no charge for little Miss P, unlike some "friendly" hotels that let kids stay free and charge thirty smackers for a well-behaved doggy. The hotel has an outdoor swimming pool, which was closed for the season during our October visit. It has no business center that I saw; likewise no fitness center. In the mornings, the typical La Quinta "Bright Side" breakfast is served in the lobby area. This free breakfast includes the typical continental fare, fruit, cereal, and DIY waffles (mercifully, square instead of Texas-shaped). We skipped the breakfast in favor a a much better spread nearby...

Most people consider Santa Fe a destination, as the elegant old city is renowned for its shops, galleries and museums and the market that runs daily on the plaza outside the New Mexico History Museum / Palace of the Governors. During the season, it's also known for the finest opera for a city its size in the country. The city - indeed the region - is also justifiably famous for its unique cuisine, a version of Mexican fare that is to Tex-Mex what classic Italian is to Chef Boyardee. We took an extra day to get home from Colorado just so we could, to quote the Ms, "Eat our way through New Mexico." We had great luck for lunch at a little roadside cafe in El Prado, north of Taos and the following evening's dinner in Albuquerque was about average (average NewMex-Mex beats good Tex-Mex any day), but unfortunately we chose to eat our Santa Fe dinner at the Blue Corn Brewery and Cafe near the La Quinta - it was good beer, but worse than average food.

Disappointed by our evening meal (except for the beer and the Baskin-Robbins cones we had for dessert), we skipped La Quinta's free spread in favor of a late breakfast right next door at the Flying Tortilla Restaurant, which completely restored our faith in Santa Fe's restaurants. By all means, eat a light supper to save room for a breakfast that's fit for el Rey at the Tortilla, which shares a parking lot with the Inn. To make matters better, they give La Quinta guests a discount. Yummm!

If you go, the La Quinta Inn Santa Fe lies well south of the plaza and Santa Fe's historic center, and on the opposite side of town from the Opera,Los Alamos, and Sandia Labs. It's relatively close to the town's little airport, and about two miles from where Cerrillos Road intersects I-25. South of I-25, Cerrillos becomes New Mexico 14, the "Turquoise Trail" that winds around the back side of the Sandias before joining I-40 east of Albuquerque. It's well-known for the historic and artistic sites along the trip, as well as the beauty of the high desert environs.

To reach the hotel from the north, follow Cerrillos south from US 285 for some five miles to Wagon Road. From the south (I-25), the distance is approximately 1.8 miles. The Inn sits on the northeast corner of Cerrillos and Wagon, adjoining the parking lot of the Santa Fe Place shopping center. There's no turn from Cerrillos southbound; instead turn east on Wagon and enter the grounds from the rear. Northbound drivers can turn into the drive between the hotel and the Flying Tortilla. If you miss the turn, you can also enter the shopping center parking lot next to an Applebee's and then reach the Inn from the rear.

Overall, a clean but somewhat shabby hotel. The location is poor for tourists intending to visit the shops, galleries, and other sights of the Plaza; though more convenient hotels will ask for a spleen as a deposit. It's pet-friendly and convenient to a superb breakfast place and a brewpub that serves good brew and bad food
