While I was still a Verizon customer, I waited a good 8 months beyond my contract expiration for the first version of the Blackberry Storm.  Then it came out, and sucked a fatty...

At the time, I was a working musician, and needed the ability to access my business emails from my "real" job.  The old LG flip phone that I had was just not cutting it.  So I was in the market for a smart phone.  A freind turned me on to the iPhone, and I decided to give it a go!

Instantly, I was amazed with what this phone could do!  A very simple interface between the phone and iTunes (both mobile, and PC versions) made adding songs a breeze.  And the apps...  OH the apps!

When you see the commercial that says they have an app for everything, they are not kidding.  Some cost a few bucks, but there are plenty of free apps out there that are helpful and easily funtional.

The thing that I have probably used the most, is the built in GPS courtesy of Google Maps.  This has saved many a trip for my family, with easy-to-follow turn by turn directions.

There were drawbacks, intially.  It was impossible to send a picture message with the original OS for the phone.  Even a run of the mill Tracfone that you buy at the local mini-mart could do this!  But when OS 3 came out last year, this was fixed.  Also, the phone did not take video (the later model, 3GS did this out of the box).  This is still somethign you can't do without downloading an app, but the app is free, so no harm done.

Voice memos, notes to self, games, reference tools...  All come in plenty handy.  The ability to synch multiple email addresses into one inbox is also VERY helpful.

Improvement on this have been made in later models, but I still love the one I bought.  I would recomend buying a hardshell case for the thing, as it would easily be scratched up if you drop it.  Plus, constantly having to buy new screen protector decals just doesn't sound fun to me.

You can find one of these pretty cheap these days...  even a refurb...  if you are looking to upgrade to a new phone, give the ol' iPhone 3G a look!


