
The Bottom Line: I would recomend The Super Swamper Bogger Bias Tire to everyone that can afford it, and is buying them for off road purposses, and not to be pavement pounders.

If someone is looking for something mean looking to add to their truck, and have it perform outstanding off road the Super Swamper Bogger bias ply tire is definitely the way for most people to go. This tire is the king of off road enthusiasts. Growing up in the foot hills of the cascades, a lot of everyone spare time in my town consisted of driving in the hills looking for the mud and snow. Most of the trucks that would head into the hills with my friends and I would either be Super Swamper TSL's, Super Swamper LTB mud terrains, or Super Swamper Boggers. After years of being around all these tires I can safely say that if you want to make it through the bigger holes and you’re really into off reading, a bogger is the tire to choose. If someone is only going to be using this tire for off road reasons, the tires can be cut. When a person cuts lugs off the bogger (always the smaller lugs) they either cut all the small lugs off, which creates a tire with massive spacing between the lugs and in my opinion a tractor tire affect, or staggers the cuts just adding a little more traction and a different look. But, keep in mind the tires are on the expensive side, wear really quick (since there bias) and cutting tread off will make that tire disappear a lot quicker.


Mud

In the mud, Super Swamper Bogger Bias Ply tires are a perfect fit. These tires are made to dig and get you through all those places that look impassable. The tires thick lugs and pattern make it so the tire can get maximum traction in sloppy mud and clay and clean out really good.


Snow

Boggers are a decent tire in the snow but not the best. The snow manages to pack itself really good between the lugs of Boggers and makes traction a little hairy. They are better than most off road tires, but in my opinion they don’t stand up to Mickey Thompson Baja belted's or a pair of open countries.


Sand

In the sand Boggers can be a great tire. That is of course if you want to cut then. When the tire is kept in its factory form it tends to dig too much in the sand. If a person is to cut the tires (all of the small lugs off) it pretty much turns the tires into paddle tires and they hook up really good. Just remember your cutting up an expensive tire.



