horrible. i dont know where to begin. starting from the airport in LA i knew this was going to be bad. china southern was the airline to canton. this airline apparently seems to think the bottom of the barrel 777 is adaquate for flight. the plane had the worst seats i have ever had the displeasure of sitting in. i either stood or sat in the bathroom for most of the flight to ease the horrid feeling of those seats.

canton, we get our main tour guide and it is apparent that he is not the most honest tour guide one has meet. you can see the dollar sings turning over in his eye's as he greets everyone with a nervous laugh.

a quick bus ride to eat and see the sights of the city...please, i just got off a 15 hour flight, the last thing i want to do is see a bunch of stuff without a few hours rest.the hotel was acceptable(white swan)

we where then off to kunming,da li, li jiang and shangri-la. the local tour guides in all but li jiang where lackluster and only took us to all tour circuit stops. i swear, the restaurants on the tour where mysteriously empty untill we arrived. hmm.. i felt like i was on a money bus along with all the other tours. infact, i saw the same couple throughout all the city's we visited. i felt like a sucker throughout the trip as we stoped at the"government approved shops" aka, tour traps. it seemed like we spent more time at the tourist traps than we did sight seeing. at night, we would sneak out from the tour and discover the cities ourselves and saw much more of the area than we ever would have on the tour. they seem to cordin you off from the areas that they dont want you to see. areas that might take their buisness away from them. places you might spend your dollars instead of with ritz.

the guide in shangrila(not a place worthy of visiting by the way) was one of the most arrogant on the tour. she did nothing but tell me how the people here are the greatest people ever. ok, i really dont care, just show me the sights and tell me the history, else keep quiet.

