Double-digit salary increases and positive hiring activity will continue in the Indian economy during the second half of the year, inspite of the uncertain global economic environment and soaring inflation, according to a survey. 
 The survey conducted by recruitment tendering platform MyHiringClub.com said that job-seekers will have more opportunities in the second half of FY'12 compared to the first half, with 82 of the employers and recruiters surveyed anticipating an increase in hiring activity.
Only 6 per cent of the respondents expected no change in recruitment activity.
"Hiring remain positive even as the world is facing a crisis in the US and eurozone. These crises are going to give only short-term impact on hiring, with certain sectors only. Here, we had seen in study 82 per cent anticipating robust hiring in second half of FY'12.
"Also good news for job seekers, along with new opportunities -- they are going to be benefited by a handsome increment and better salary," MyHiringClub.com CEO Rajesh Kumar said.
When it comes to a salary hike for existing employees, 36 per cent of the respondents said they will be able to give a 15 per cent to 20 per cent increment, while another 24 per cent of the employers surveyed said they would give a 10-15 per cent increment.
Another 12 per cent of the respondents said salaries would rise by 5 per cent to 10 per cent, while 6 per cent of the employers surveyed did not comment on the issue.
Furthermore, for job seekers, there would be a 12 per cent rise in pay scales vis-a-vis existing levels.
The survey said 69 per cent of the respondents indicated the maximum hiring will be witnessed at the mid-level for employees having experience of 4-9 years.
Another 38 per cent said the maximum hiring will be at lower levels, with employees having between 1-4 years of experience. Only 18 per cent predicted that the maximum hiring would take place at the senior level, with 9-15 years of experience.
The survey was conducted among senior HR personnel and the top management of 296 employers and 793 recruitment consultants across 10 industry segments (healthcare, infrastructure, hospitality, real estate and construction, BFSI, IT and ITeS, training and consulting, FMCG, telecom and automobile), spread across eight Indian cities.
