 We were somewhat apprehensive taking a tour to China. We weren't sure about what to expect, was Ritz Tours okay and what about Air China? I hope this review will help you if you're not sure. China was the most interesting, wonderful tour we have ever taken. The 5-star hotels were outstanding. Air China was excellent as were their two internal flights we took. Everywhere we ate the food was excellent: beautiful presentation, so many, many choices of top-notch food at the buffets including cooked to order BBQ and stir-fry, steaks, fish,huge shrimps, vegetables and fruits galore. Mostly Chinese food (on the boat Chinese and American.) All tours were included in the price except one. Ritz included travel insurance also if you booked early. The tour guide was exceptional-thoughtful of our group needs, knowledgeable about all subjects we asked him about, funny and took care of the group well.
Highlights: the Panda Preserve in Wulong. This is a breeding center preserve where the pandas at a certain age are let out into the wild in the surrounding mountains. (Some tours take you to a zoo); spectacular scenery at Yellow Mountain; the side trip from the Yangtze River Cruise down the Daning River we saw areas to be flooded, monkeys (yes!), lovely scenery and narrow gorges; the Wall of China and the 8th wonder of the world the terra cotta soldiers. This is an amazing site not to be missed. (Learn about it before you go.) The optional tour to 'The Hutongs' an older area of Beijing, let's you see life in a Chinese home. It's optional but one of the highlights for most of our group. Well worth doing. The Victoria Rose River cruise boat was very good, cabins were bigger than we had imagined and plenty of room for everything. Super food, staff and some interesting lectures.
We arrived too early in Beijing to check into our hotel, so Ritz Tours had arranged for us to stay at another hotel for a few hours to shower, eat breakfast and nap for several hours before waking us to go to our scheduled hotel. This wasn't on the itinerary but they arranged it for us anyway.
This is an outstanding tour company and others in our group who had been to China before said it's the best Tour company they have been with.
I can't praise them enough.

Recommended: Yes

