
Battlefield 3 is a massive game.  It is not simply massive in terms of content , but, in terms of physical data.  The singleplayer campaign and multiplayer campaign are so large, that both come packaged on individual disks.  


If that isn’t enough, there is a high definition pack file which will take up 1.5 GB of your hard disk drive so you can enjoy PC quality textures on your HDTV.


Why so much data?


Well – Battlefield 3 probably has the largest maps and the most variety of gameplay of any console shooter in existence. It’s a safe bet that the upcoming Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3 won’t be able to compete with B3 since both games are designed with two very different gamers in mind.


The Battlefield experience has always been in a league of its own due to its Personal Computer environment honed gameplay elements.  Unlike other unique First Person Shooters  such as CoD, Counter Strike, Rainbow Six and  Crysis,  Battlefield attempts to – and in most cases does – bring the actual feel of freedom and open ended gameplay to the casual gamer.


The maps are absolutely massive – easily 4 or 5 times the size of any map on other FPS games. In order to traverse the maps, you’ll need to use one of several vehicles scattered throughout the landscape.   In most cases, you’ll need to commondeer a helicopter to fly from home base to the enemy base.  In other cases you may need to drive a tank, jeep or otherwise armored vehicle.   In this game, jets such as the A10 Thunderbolt are available for you to soar through the skies raining bullets on enemies who themselves have chosen to drive around in various vehicles. Perhaps you’ll engage in fighter vs. fighter dogfights with an enemy who has a jet of their own.


Vehicle combat and the massive maps offer a warfare experience virtually no other game on the market does – although many of them have tried to imitate.  However, while most of those games have the player drive and shoot enemies, Battlefield intends to make teammates fight together.  Whilst playing the game, I and 2 others made our way into a tank that had side turrets and rumbled down the streets of Paris.  Enemies spotted us and tried to blow us up. The driver of my tank positioned us so that I’d be able to use my side mounted turret and fire down a narrow alleyway and I scored several kills.   He then continued to drive us to the objective area so we could assault the target: a set of computer terminals which needed to be destroyed.   


In other situations, I ended up either being gunner on helicopters or assault boats – having to put my faith in the “capable” hands of the 13 year old on the other end of Xbox Live who should have been doing his homework.


This is where Battlefield 3 shines. A massive sandbox where 24 players (12 on either side) must work together or compete to win individual maps by completing several objectives.  The maps start out already spacious, but, as individual objectives are completed, these maps expand and allow previously closed areas to be accessed so the defense and offense points can morph – which offers new play experiences.     In the interior close quarters portions of some maps, an assault rifle is the best choice, but, when the battle expands outside a sniper rifle might become a necessity.




GRAPHICS AND SOUND


Even if you don’t choose to install the 1.5GB High Definition file I’ve told you about, Battlefield 3 looks absolutely incredible in standard definition. Many tricks have been learned from Crysis I see. Trees can be blown apart and collapse for example.   The detailing of the maps is absolutely stunning and the game manages to not only look more photorealistic than Call of Duty games, but, does not attempt to annoy you with anti-sniper elements such as unbreakable glass and excellent sniper positions that overlook nothing.   Draw distance is very high – which you’ll appreciate when you want to get the most out of the jets and helicopters while attempting to attack ground targets.


Sound is also very good. Until now, I thought Crysis 2 had the best graphics and sound available on consoles, but,  Battlefield 3 takes everything up a notch.  Bullets and rockets terrifyingly whiz by your heads  and explosions resonate very loudly when hooked up to a good subwoofer.  It does not sound as chaotic as Call of Duty4: Modern Warfare 1 or 2 because the scale of the battles is so large and many sounds are distant, but, it sounds appropriately realistic.


The best part of the graphics is seeing the sides of buildings blown out by heavy fire which uncovers interior hiding positions and allows you to deliver suppression fire inside buildings from across the street.  The downside of the destructible environments is that they aren’t as destructible as they were in the last Battlefield game. Only select buildings can have their walls blown apart.  Console technology hasn’t reached the part where entire buildings can be crumbled to the ground from well placed tank rounds.




MULTIPLAYER 

Before Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare  landed on consoles back in 2007, first person shooters lacked a  coherent attribute improvement system.  Either weapons were readily available in each multiplayer map (most FPS games) or players had to spend credits to buy them,  ala: Counter Strike.  Although Battlefield 3 has cribbed CoD4’s weapon unlock  and achievement style, it has still stayed true to it’s roots.   Soldiers are broken into different classes:  snipers, assault, engineers and medics.  Snipers, of course, carry a sniper rifle and pistol.  Snipers can place radio beacons which allow teammates to spawn in strategic parts of the map.  Assault troops carry an assault rifle and pistol.  Engineers carry shotguns or heavy machine guns and rocket launchers and medics - who have the ability to heal people-  carry smaller arms .   There are numerous improvements made to the class formula.   Bipods can be added to weapons allowing weapons to be more accurate. Soldiers can equip defibrillators or ammo packs to assist other players.  Flashlights and muzzleflash can allow weapons to blind opponents.  Points can be gained for repairing vehicles or reviving downed soldiers.


No matter what class you pick, or what you choose to do with your time in each battle, you will be tracked and your progress recorded towards achievements or bonuses for new unlockable items across the 4 classes. 


Unfortunately, it is the wideness and freedom which actually becomes Battlefield’s multiplayer downfall. After you’ve crashed your 100th jet or killed your 1000th soldier, you’ll begin to get bored. Unlike the more restricted, linear fighting of games like CoD4, you aren’t really forced to do anything in any particular way here.  Having too much freedom  causes what is otherwise a spectacular game to feel unfocused. 

Like previous Battlefield games, you can spawn into the map at different points not too far from the objective. You may spawn in to assist a squad whom you are part of, or, become a squad leader (spawn point) yourself to help your team pressure the objective.  The game does not automatically put you where you are most needed and there is no option to have it do so. 

Further making matters worse is that you'll need to actually buy Battlefield 3 to get online - or, at least, buy the "online pass" to play the Multiplayer mode.  In order to further combat piracy, Battlefield's Multiplayer is locked until you enter a redeem code (found in the box).   Don't bother renting this game.



THE SINGLEPLAYER CAMPAIGN


No “modern warfare” game would be complete without some epic battle against Arabs or the Chinese so here it is:  America’s Marines are involved in a war against  the People’s Liberation and Resistance.  The PLR is a bunch of “terrorists” with ties to Iran who want to set off nuclear bombs in Paris, NY and anywhere else they can kill lots of people.  You must take Sgt. Henry "Black" Blackburn on missions to stop them. It’s an old retread that we’ve played through a hundred times before.   Unfortunately, the enemy isn’t very smart. They’ll always know exactly where you are, grow roots, and keep shooting at your last position.   To make matters worse, the friendly AI isn’t very smart either. They love taking cover, but absolutely suck at providing good covering fire or assaults.


What will make a play through worthwhile is the aerial missions which create impressive flight experiences for people who normally don’t run flight simulators.


There is a Cooperative player mode but, due to the lameness of the enemy tactics, it isn’t very much fun. I’ve enjoyed CoOp games such as Rainbow Six Vegas 2 far more. The enemy here just isn’t good enough to offer a consistent challenge.


OVERALL


The Singleplayer game is  a lackluster first person shooter we’ve already played held afloat by pretty visuals. If you never played an FPS before, you’ll think Battlefield 3 is the most incredible thing since sliced bread.   If you’re a CoD veteran or have spent any amount of time in Crysis, Battlefield’s singleplayer is almost certainly guaranteed to disappoint you.


It is the Multiplayer that makes this game shine. The battles between 24 online players would be nicer if the consoles could support the 64 player slots available on the PC, but, it never feels anything less than a chaotic battlefield experience with lots to do and many players to kill.
