 First off I want to say Rage is a great game, packed with many adventures that will consume your day with fun gaming.

The plot of the story starts off with Dan Hager, rescueing you, an ARK survivor. The ARK is a military personal group from the past that preserved or freezed (not 100% sure), keep alive for the future. In the future the Authority (world leader) kills all ARK survivors. You appear to be the last ARK survivor in the game. So once Dan Hager rescues you he brings you back to his settlement where the rest of the Hager family lives. He gives you various quests to complete until you're ready to move onto the next town. (Or Dan Hager kicks you out because you're to dangerous). The next city is Wellspring where you get quests from Sheriff Black and the Mayor. In WellSpring you can buy new equipment, play some mini-games (that involve gambling) and even race dune buggys for race certificates. From this point on in the story you move onto subway town and again have the chance to complete quests, shop and race. If you get bored with the main quest line or want to mix it up a little, whatever, there's a job board in Wellspring and Subway Town where you can complete side-quests for various prizes like money. Money is a very important component of the game, you can either loot dead bodies, do Stanley Express (deliver mail), or quests to get money. Money allows you to buy upgrades, weapons ammo and build stuff. Building stuff is very important, throughout the game you gain blueprints that allow you to construct items. These items can be new ammo, turrets or many other things.

The actually game is put into 3 discs, which is pretty cool because I've never seen a game with 3 discs. The first two are for campaign and the 3rd is for multiplayer. The multiplayer is the same concept as racing in the campaign expect you get to race against actually people.

The graphics are also very good, it seems very realistic. One disadvantage of the game is that once it's over you want more. Also the game kind of forces you to do the quests you can't really wander off and do whatever. You techniqually can but you're limited.

Overall the game is great, its comparable to games like Fallout 3 and FallOut New Vegas. I'd definitely reccomend it. 9/10 overall.
