
    In 2010, I destroyed my $1200 laptop by throwing it off my desk while sleepwalking. It was fast, had great specs, and could run just about any program imaginable. I was pretty devastated.
   Being that I am a poor college student, but still in need of a computer for school work, I immediately went hunting for a deal on a laptop that was fast, reliable, and no more than $600. I drove around town looking for a good deal at several stores. It had gotten late and I made one last stop at a local electronics store. I sat there and tinkered with it for a while, and after being thoroughly satisfied with it's abilities, I plunked down the $500 and bought the HP G62-465DX laptop.
   I got home thinking this laptop could never match up to the last one. There is no way that a $700 difference in price tags would even come close to one another. But after just an hour, I was incredibly pleased with the deal I got. On with the review!
The Pro's:
   This laptop has pretty much everything you need. It is very very fast, no waiting for web pages to load, or downloads. Pretty much everything seems to finish immediately after i push the button. Start up can be a little slow sometimes if there are updates (which always happen randomly and uninvited with windows 7), but they are few and far in between. The Intel I3 processor makes this computer almost capable of anything its so fast.
   Another plus about this laptop is that the graphics (by Intel) are fantastic, and the video plays without a hitch. No choppy video or browser crashes, no problem whatsoever. The HD display makes videos look great. Not to mention the built in web cam and microphone make talking with your friends in far away places a breeze. Plus, since you love your far away friends so much, why not burn them a custom DVD to send to to them. You can do that right here on this laptop too. It comes with a DVD burner already inside the machine.
      If you do a lot of work on your laptop, this could work out for you as well. It has plenty of memory to store tons of files and data. I have almost 2 school years worth of assignments, PowerPoint's, recorded lectures, and notes on here, not to mention many movies that I put on my laptop, and it still has plenty more space to go. You could probably save tons of your work on here before you needed to go buy an external hard drive (sorry I don't have a review of one here too! I haven't needed one yet with this laptop). My buddy is a DJ and uses the same laptop to do shows. He has more music than you can imagine and still hasn't even come close to filling it up, even after 10's of thousands of songs.
   Reliability is probably my favorite and most coveted feature on this laptop. I have dropped it, stepped on it, spilled things on it, and miraculously it still works great. All I have is a few minor scratches. I am not guaranteeing that this will work the same for you, but once again being a goofy college kid, I have put this laptop through hell, and it has survived just fine.

   One final pro would have to be the design. The texture on the outside feels and looks really cool, plus it goes well with the black keyboard. Not to mention it is relatively thin compared to some laptops.

The few Cons:I have had so few problems with this laptop that I am scared I might accidentally discourage someone from buying it if I say it has any problems. Good thing there are only 3 problems with mine:
1. The stick pads on the bottom of the laptop that keep it from sliding around came off one at a time over a 4 month period. I wish they would have stayed on so my laptop doesn't slide as much.

2. The computer sometimes gets burning lava hot. I don't know why, but sometimes my laptop gets flaming hot on the sides occasionally. The sides get so hot you need to prop it up sometimes to get more airflow under it.

3. The Track pad is a little tough to get used to. It has an odd feeling and texture to it, which makes using it a little weird at first, but nothing that you cannot get used to pretty quickly. Also the the built in mouse clickers are a little bit tough. You gotta push down pretty hard to click on something. 

Some Technical stuff: Intel Core i3-370M 2.4GHz Processor, 500GB Hard Drive,4GB DDR3 RAM,Built-in Web cam,DVD Burner, Windows 7 Home Premium 64-bit

Final Word:  This laptop is about the best you can get for the price. It is reliable, fast, has a great display, and looks pretty darn cool. Sure it has some downsides, but nothing intolerable, if not fixable. I would say if you are in the market for a new laptop but don't want to spend every dime you have, then this laptop would be the way to go
